Mary Tyler Moore, whose iconic television roles reflected the changing place of women in   America, died on Wednesday, eliciting an outpouring of tributes on social media. Dick Van Dyke, who played Ms. Moore’s husband in the 1960s sitcom “The Dick Van Dyke Show,” said on Twitter that Ms. Moore had changed his life for the better. Other former   and   friends also shared their grief and gratitude online. They included the actors Ed Asner, who played her boss at a local television station in the 1970s sitcom “The Mary Tyler Moore Show,” Ben Stiller and Patricia Arquette, who   with her in the 1996 movie “Flirting With Disaster,” and Michael Keaton, who appeared on her   variety show “Mary. ” Some remembered Ms. Moore as a role model who portrayed strong female characters onscreen. They included Oprah Winfrey, who has said she grew up inspired by Ms. Moore, as well as Ellen Degeneres, Marlee Matlin and George Takei, all of whom described Ms. Moore as a trailblazer. The comedian and actor Stephen Fry said he was rehearsing on Wednesday at the stage where “The Mary Tyler Moore Show” was produced, adding that he and others observed a minute of silence in her honor. Female journalists felt a special affinity for Ms. Moore, who starred in that show as Mary Richards, a news producer at a Minneapolis television station.

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Floodwaters saturated southern Louisiana, forcing more desperate rescues and evacuations. The death toll rose to 11, and tens of thousands of people have been displaced. Some areas have received as much as 31 inches of rain (yes, 31) in the last week  —   a     phenomenon that some experts say foretells the disasters of climate change. _____ 2. At the Olympics, the spectacular American gymnast Simone Biles scooped up her fourth gold medal, soaring past the competition in the floor exercise. More of today’s highlights are here. Fans of the U. S. runner Allyson Felix raged over a dive across the finish line by the Bahamian Shaunae Miller to win the women’s 400 meters. And an Irish boxer, Michael Conlon, raged against judges after they ruled he lost to a Russian, Vladimir Nikitin, in a bout many observers believed he had won. Our full coverage of the Games is here, including the   battle for the 2024 Olympics and a meditation on the sometimes mystifying theatrics in synchronized swimming. _____ 3. Donald Trump spoke at a rally in a suburb of Milwaukee, steering clear of the area where unrest flared after a fatal police shooting. He accused Hillary Clinton of pushing an   “narrative” and said, “Law and order must be restored. ” His campaign focus has shifted to the theme of fighting terrorism, with a special focus on protecting women. He’s also portraying Hillary Clinton as weak and tired. _____ 4. Four sources told our political reporters that Roger Ailes, the Fox News chairman ousted last month over accusations of sexual harassment, is advising Donald Trump as he prepares for the coming presidential debates. A Trump spokeswoman issued a denial, saying the two are friends and “speak occasionally, which isn’t news. ” _____ 5. Hillary Clinton traveled to Philadelphia for a   drive, bolstered by new polls showing her lead strengthening in Florida. Her campaign is spending heavily to influence early voting, which is allowed in 35 states and the District of Columbia. The first, Minnesota, begins on Sept. 23. Almost   of voters cast early ballots in 2012. The F. B. I. under pressure from House Republicans, gave Congress classified documents related to its investigation of Mrs. Clinton’s private email server. _____ 6. Russia launched air attacks in Syria from an air base in Iran, becoming the first foreign military to operate from Iranian territory since at least World War II. The move could alter the political and military equation in the Middle East. The Russian military said its bombers destroyed ammunition dumps and other targets linked to the Islamic State and other groups. _____ 7. Turns out older people are pretty good life hackers. A professor of industrial design has been collecting examples: using the moldable putty Sugru to buffer furniture edges that can bruise or tear elderly skin, and snapping rubber bands around cups to increase grip. A    woman who put a lazy susan in her refrigerator to ease access said, “Designers think they can put themselves in the shoes of the aging, but you don’t really know until you’ve lived with the realities. ” _____ 8. Gawker will be getting a new owner. Univision’s bid of $135 million secured the muckraking gossip site at auction, according to two people with direct knowledge of the deal. Gawker declared bankruptcy after being hit with a $140 million judgment for publishing a sex tape involving the former professional wrestler Hulk Hogan. Above, Nick Denton, who founded Gawker in 2002. _____ 9. Google released Duo, a   app that can place video calls between Android and iPhone users. In a jab at Apple, whose FaceTime operates only with iOS, Google’s statement said users shouldn’t have to worry “if your friend is using the same type of device as you are. ” _____ 10. Wen Hair Care, created by a Los Angeles stylist to the stars, has drawn more than 21, 000 complaints, including hair loss in women and children. Its distributor is part of a trade association bitterly fighting proposed legislation that would empower the Food and Drug Administration to test and recall cosmetics. But the proposal has the backing of the bigger players in the beauty industry, who want to regain public trust. _____ 11. Finally, this Native American chef, Sean Sherman, is unearthing and revitalizing indigenous cooking traditions that have been lost or forgotten. An Oglala Lakota, he favors chokecherries, corn silk and even chaga, the fungus that blooms on birch trees, joking about his “  . ” He plans to open a restaurant in Minneapolis next year. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.


HANGZHOU, China  —   Human rights barely registered on President Obama’s latest visit to China, which ended Monday night with a news conference at which he made only a glancing reference to differences with Beijing over “religious freedom. ” And as Mr. Obama moved on to Laos for a summit meeting of Asian nations, human rights advocates worried that their concerns were falling off the American agenda not only with China but also across the region, for the same reason: Beijing’s continuing rise as an economic and geopolitical power. As China challenges the United States for influence in Asia, the administration is concerned that any criticism of nations like Malaysia, Vietnam, the Philippines and Laos for backsliding on human rights could alienate them rather than pulling them closer. At the same time, shining a spotlight on China’s own rough treatment of dissidents risks losing Beijing’s cooperation on issues like trade, climate change and nuclear proliferation. Rights advocates accused the administration of being too timid, arguing that the United States should put as much pressure on governments over how they treat their citizens as they do during trade negotiations. “Decades of experience should make clear to Washington that Beijing responds only to the expectation of unpleasant consequences,” said Sophie Richardson, the China director for Human Rights Watch. “Why not threaten sanctions, cut out the pointless pomp or visibly align with peaceful critics of the government?” she said. “On other diplomatic, economic and security issues, governments recognize and use these points of leverage. Why not on human rights?” Others say Mr. Obama, who speaks openly about civil rights in the United States, has been wise not to inject the issue into talks with China, even as Beijing has carried out the most sweeping crackdown on Chinese civil society in nearly 20 years. They say the president understands that a more powerful China is better able to resist American pressure on human rights than it was a decade ago. “To its credit, the Obama administration has not exacerbated the many U. S.  economic and security issues with a   human rights policy,” said Robert S. Ross, a professor of political science at Boston College. “It is quite a stretch to argue that diplomacy could persuade an authoritarian,   government to undermine its domestic political power by allowing greater opposition to the government and tolerating greater political instability. ” The pattern is now extending beyond China’s borders. During Mr. Obama’s visit to Laos, a tiny country run by a repressive Communist regime, he so far has chosen not to publicly raise the case of an   civil rights worker who disappeared at a police checkpoint four years ago. He has refrained, at least in public, from criticizing the new president of the Philippines, Rodrigo Duterte, who has been unapologetic about waging a violent war against drugs in the first two months of his term. On Wednesday, a day after Mr. Obama abruptly canceled a meeting with Mr. Duterte, who had unleashed a   diatribe against him, the two men met informally. During Mr. Obama’s visit to Vietnam in May, he agreed to lift a longstanding ban on the sale of lethal weapons without winning significant concessions on human rights. And after trying to draw Malaysia closer, Mr. Obama has been embarrassed by the country’s prime minister, Najib Razak, who has closed online news outlets and prosecuted opposition figures in an effort to stay in power. The Obama administration has pressed China on human rights in a   way on only a few occasions. In 2012, the American Embassy in Beijing harbored Chen Guangcheng, a blind Chinese dissident, and flew him to the United States. But the days when the White House could demand and expect the release of a few Chinese political prisoners before a summit meeting are gone, Professor Ross said. As the Chinese Communist Party gained confidence, it began rearresting dissidents who had been released before American summit meetings. “Since then,” Professor Ross said, “U. S. human rights diplomacy has been reduced to rhetoric, which, no surprise, has not improved China’s human rights situation. ” Despite Mr. Obama’s fleeting public reference to religious repression this week, for example, few expect the Chinese authorities to retreat from a campaign against Christian churches in the area surrounding Hangzhou, the city that hosted the Group of 20 meeting. One of the new challenges for Mr. Obama, and one for his successor, will be how to deal with Mr. Duterte. The police in the Philippines say they have killed about 1, 000 suspects in the antidrug campaign, and about 300 people have been killed by vigilantes. Rights groups have urged the United States to do something about the situation. “It’d be difficult for us to overstate how grave the situation has become in the Philippines,” said John Sifton, the deputy Washington director of Human Rights Watch. “At this rate, we’re talking about over 6, 000 people dead by the end of the year. ” But the Philippines is an American ally and a bulwark against Chinese military gains in the South China Sea. By that calculus, the United States cannot afford to alienate Mr. Duterte. Philippine analysts say that Mr. Duterte is on good terms with Chinese business executives who invested in Davao, the city where he served as mayor, and that he may be open to negotiating with Beijing over the South China Sea. Under American legislation known as the Leahy Amendment, Washington is obliged to cut off assistance to Philippines law enforcement units that are suspected of human rights abuses. But Antonio La Viña, a professor of government at Ateneo de Manila University, said the threat of such a sanction was unlikely to be effective. “The truth is that the Philippines has the money to modernize our military,” he said. Mr. Obama is the first sitting American president to visit Laos, and he has sought to promote reconciliation with the nation, on which the United States dropped more than two million tons of bombs at the height of the Vietnam War. But he is also being called on to press Laos’s repressive government  —   a traditional ally of China  —   on the case of Sombath Somphone, a civil rights campaigner and   agriculture specialist who disappeared at a police checkpoint in the capital, Vientiane, four years ago. Mr. Obama will also have to decide how hard to push concerns about human rights with other leaders at the meeting, several of whom are being wooed by China. One of Mr. Obama’s favorite Southeast Asian leaders, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi of Myanmar, is scheduled to visit the White House this month, and American officials hope to make progress on addressing the plight of the Rohingya, a persecuted Muslim minority in the predominantly Buddhist country. More than 100, 000 Rohingya live in   camps in northern Myanmar, and Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has appointed a commission that includes the former United Nations secretary general Kofi Annan to find solutions. “She has demonstrated a recognition that this is a problem that must be solved,” said Tom Malinowski, the United States assistant secretary for democracy, human rights and labor. The Obama administration has been less vocal on conditions in Vietnam, which it has tried to steer closer to the United States in the face of Chinese pressure over territorial disputes in the South China Sea. Since then, the human rights situation has only deteriorated, said Nguyen Quang A, an activist and a former member of the Vietnamese Communist Party who was invited to meet Mr. Obama in Hanoi but who was stopped by Vietnamese security forces. Political prisoners remain in jail, the news media is muzzled, and independent labor unions have not been allowed, despite promises to Washington. “Should Obama have done more to try and influence the government of Vietnam?” Mr. Quang A asked. “Absolutely. ”


A group of attorneys, scholars, and advocates put their names to a letter sent to Attorney General Jeff Sessions Tuesday, urging him to take a serious look at reform as he works with the President to select a new Assistant Attorney General for his Civil Rights Division. [“During the Obama administration, the Division served purely ideological ends with rigidity unmatched in other federal offices. Entrenched federal bureaucrats jettisoned precepts like equal enforcement in favor of political and racialized dogmas with a zeal that risks litigation failure and invites court sanctions,” the letter states.  Signed by such conservative heavyweights as Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, the letter paints a picture of a Division ripe for sweeping reform after eight years under Obama during which “The Civil Rights Division has relegated its leadership role to political activists. ” Hiring practices for the career staff of the Division is one of the letter’s chief concerns. While Tom Perez, now head of the Democratic National Committee, was the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, the Division was the subject of an Inspector General’s review that found the Obama Justice Department’s insistence that   have a “demonstrated commitment to civil rights” led to a perception only   activists need apply. “In this case, perception and reality were synonymous,” the letter insists, noting instances in which Division employees leaked confidential information to civil rights groups, and Perez’s subsequent refusal to implement any of the report’s hiring recommendations. Also among the letter’s complaints is the alleged culture of politically motivated bullying that was fostered during the Obama years. The same Inspector General’s Report found a pattern of personal attacks against, for example, employees who were “openly Christian. ” J. Christian Adams, President of the Public Interest Legal Foundation and a signatory of the letter, added, “For years, a radicalized Civil Rights Division   advanced leftists causes with respect to voting, law enforcement, immigration, and others while constitutional Rule of Law was considered a nuisance. General Sessions has an opportunity to begin the course correction necessary to protect all Americans from civil rights abuses. ” In picking a new head for the Civil Rights Division, the letter’s signatories hope Attorney General Sessions will look for a reformer prepared to return to   civil rights enforcement and tackle the Division’s entrenched cultural problems. “The next AAG certainly cannot be a proponent of the status quo by any means,” they say.


Rep. Luis Gutierrez (  ) made the rounds on MSBNC and CNN, dismissing President Donald Trump’s offer to help Chicago end gun violence, and blaming the NRA for the death and mayhem currently marring the Windy City. [Gutierrez was reacting to Trump’s description of the “carnage” in Chicago and his pledge to intervene federally if city leaders fail to stop the violence. On January 24 Trump tweeted:  If Chicago doesn’t fix the horrible ”carnage” going on, 228 shootings in 2017 with 42 killings (up 24% from 2016) I will send in the Feds!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017,  The following day, Gutierrez appeared on All In With Chris Hayes and said, “[President Trump] tweets about the “carnage” and that he’s going to send the feds in. Did he send any extra money for police officers? We could use that, for training. ” He noted that Trump is increasing the number of Border Patrol agents on the southern border and said Chicago would like to have more federal agents —  ATF and FBI —  in the city as well. Then Gutierrez said: But  …    [President Trump is] with the NRA. The NRA that endorsed him, [that is]  …    so part of his relationship. You know that NRA did? It crippled the laws of the city of Chicago and the courts, so that we cannot keep guns off our streets. The next day Gutierrez appeared on CNN, where he was again asked about Trump’s “carnage” assessment and his pledge to send in the feds if Chicago city leaders fail to end the violence. Gutierrez said: Here’s the hypocrisy of it all. The fact is, Donald Trump loves the NRA. And during his campaign he embraced them and they embraced him. The city of Chicago had some of the most stringent gun control laws, how were they eviscerated? Because the NRA funded lawsuits against our gun control measures. Gutierrez ignores the fact that Chicago had some its highest annual murder rates while all the city’s gun controls were place. For example, the Chicago Police Department reports 921 murders during 1991, 940 during 1992. 850 during 2993, and 930 during 1994. These excessively high murder numbers all occurred while Chicago’s ban on handgun ownership was in place. Viewed in this light, the 762 murders CNN reported for 2016 were a far cry from some of the murder numbers witnessed while Chicago’s most “stringent gun controls” were in effect. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of Bullets with AWR Hawkins, a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.


VOROKHOBINO, Russia  —   A dedicated pacifist who has never even held a gun, Andrei Sivak discovered that his government considered him a dangerous extremist when he tried to change some money and the teller “suddenly looked up at me with a face full of fear. ” His name had popped up on the exchange bureau’s computer system, along with those of members of Al Qaeda, the Islamic State and other militant groups responsible for shocking acts of violence. The only group the    father of three has ever belonged to, however, is Jehovah’s Witnesses, a Christian denomination committed to the belief that the Bible must be taken literally, particularly its injunction “Thou shalt not kill. ” Yet, in a throwback to the days of the Soviet Union, when Jehovah’s Witnesses were hounded as spies and malcontents by the K. G. B. the denomination is at the center of an escalating campaign by the authorities to curtail religious groups that compete with the Russian Orthodox Church and that challenge President Vladimir V. Putin’s efforts to rally the country behind traditional and often militaristic patriotic values. The Justice Ministry, in a preliminary adminstrative strike last month, put the headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Russia, an office complex near St. Petersburg, on a list of the bodies banned “in connection with the carrying out of extremist activities. ” Whether it stays there will depend on Russia’s Supreme Court, which is scheduled to meet on Wednesday to hear a request from the Justice Ministry to outlaw the religious organization and stop its more than 170, 000 Russian members from spreading “extremist” texts. Extremism, as defined by a law passed in 2002 but amended and expanded several times since, has become a catchall charge that can be deployed against just about anybody, as it has been against some of those involved in recent   protests in Moscow and scores of other cities. Several students who took part in demonstrations in the Siberian city of Tomsk are now being investigated by a special   unit, while Leonid Volkov, the senior aide to the jailed protest leader Aleksei A. Navalny, said he himself was detained last week under the extremism law. In the case of Jehovah’s Witnesses, the putative extremism seems to derive mostly from the group’s absolute opposition to violence, a stand that infuriated Soviet and now Russian authorities whose legitimacy rests in large part on the celebration of martial triumphs, most notably over Nazi Germany in World War II but also over rebels in Syria. Jehovah’s Witnesses, members of a denomination founded in the United States in the 19th century and active in Russia for more than 100 years, refuse military service, do not vote and view God as the only true leader. They shun the patriotic festivals promoted with gusto by the Kremlin, like the annual celebration of victory in 1945 and recent events to celebrate the annexation of Crimea in March 2014. Mr. Sivak, who says he lost his job as a physical education teacher because of his role as a Jehovah’s Witnesses elder, said he voted for Mr. Putin in 2000, three years before joining the denomination. He added that while he had not voted since, nor had he supported   activities of the sort that usually attract the attention of Russia’s   version of the K. G. B. the Federal Security Service, or F. S. B. “I have absolutely no interest in politics,” he said during a recent Jehovah’s Witnesses Friday service in a wooden country house in Vorokhobino, a   village north of Moscow. Around 100 worshipers crammed into a long, chilly room under fluorescent lights to listen to readings from the Bible, sing and watch a video advising them to dress for worship as they would for a meeting with the president. “From the Russian state’s perspective, Jehovah’s Witnesses are completely separate,” said Geraldine Fagan, the author of “Believing in Russia  —   Religious Policy After Communism. ” She added, “They don’t get involved in politics, but this is itself seen as a suspicious political deviation. ” “The idea of independent and public religious activity that is completely outside the control of  —   and also indifferent to  —   the state sets all sorts of alarm bells ringing in the Orthodox Church and the security services,” she said. That the worldwide headquarters of Jehovah’s Witnesses is in the United States and that its publications are mostly prepared there, Ms. Fagan added, “all adds up to a big conspiracy theory” for the increasingly assertive F. S. B. For Mr. Sivak, it has added up to a long legal nightmare. His troubles began, he said, when undercover security officers posed as worshipers and secretly filmed a service where he was helping to officiate in 2010. Accused of “inciting hatred and disparaging the human dignity of citizens,” he was put on trial for extremism along with a second elder, Vyacheslav Stepanov, 40. The prosecutor’s case, heard by a municipal court in Sergiyev Posad, a center of the Russian Orthodox Church, produced no evidence of extremism and focused instead on the insufficient patriotism of Jehovah’s Witnesses. “Their disregard for the state,” a report prepared for the prosecution said, “erodes any sense of civic affiliation and promotes the destruction of national and state security. ” In a ruling last year, the court found the two men not guilty, and their ordeal seemed over  —   until Mr. Sivak tried to change money and was told that he had been placed on a list of “terrorists and extremists. ” He and Mr. Stepanov now face new charges of extremism and are to appear before a regional court this month. “There is a big wave of repression breaking,” Mr. Stepanov said. In response to written questions, the Justice Ministry in Moscow said a yearlong review of documents at the Jehovah’s Witnesses “administrative center” near St. Petersburg had uncovered violations of a Russian law banning extremism. As a result, it added, the center should be “liquidated,” along with nearly 400 locally registered branches of the group and other structures. For the denomination’s leaders in Russia, the sharp escalation in a long campaign of harassment, previously driven mostly by local officials, drew horrifying flashbacks to the Soviet era. Vasily Kalin, the chairman of Jehovah’s Witnesses’ Russian arm, recalled that his whole family had been deported to Siberia when he was a child. “It is sad and reprehensible that my children and grandchildren should be facing a similar fate,” he said. “Never did I expect that we would again face the threat of religious persecution in modern Russia. ” In Russia, as in many countries, the    proselytizing of Jehovah’s Witnesses often causes irritation, and their theological idiosyncrasies disturb many mainstream Christians. The group has also been widely criticized for saying that the Bible prohibits blood transfusions. But it has never promoted violent or even peaceful political resistance. “I cannot imagine that anyone really thinks they are a threat,” said Alexander Verkhovsky, director of the SOVA Center for Information and Analysis, which monitors extremism in Russia. “But they are seen as a good target. They are pacifists, so they cannot be radicalized, no matter what you do to them. They can be used to send a message. ” That message, it would seem, is that everyone needs to get with the Putin program  —   or risk being branded as an extremist for displaying indifference, never mind hostility, to the Kremlin’s drive to make Russia a great power again. “A big reason they are being targeted is simply that they are an easy target,” Ms. Fagan said. “They don’t vote, so nobody is going to lose votes by attacking them. ” Attacking Jehovah’s Witnesses also sends a signal that even the mildest deviation from the norm, if proclaimed publicly and insistently, can be punished under the   law, which was passed after Russia’s second war in Chechnya and the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States. Billed as a move by Russia to join a worldwide struggle against terrorism, the law prohibited “incitement of racial, national or religious strife, and social hatred associated with violence or calls for violence. ” But the reference to violence was later deleted, opening the way for the authorities to classify as extremist any group claiming to offer a unique, true path to religious or political salvation. Even the Russian Orthodox Church has sometimes fallen afoul of the law: The slogan “Orthodoxy or Death!”  —   a rallying cry embraced by some   believers  —   has been banned as an illegal extremist text. To help protect the Orthodox Church and other established religions, Parliament passed a law in 2015 to exempt the Bible and the Quran, as well as Jewish and Buddhist scripture, from charges of extremism based on their claims to offer the only true faith. The main impetus for the current crackdown, however, appears to come from the security services, not the Orthodox Church. Roman Lunkin, director of the Institute of Religion and Law, a Moscow research group, described it as “part of a broad policy of suppressing all nongovernmental organizations” that has gained particular force because of the highly centralized structure of Jehovah’s Witnesses under a worldwide leadership based in the United States. “They are controlled from outside Russia, and this is very suspicious for our secret services,” he said. “They don’t like having an organization that they do not and cannot control. ” Artyom Grigoryan, a former Jehovah’s Witness who used to work at the group’s Russian headquarters but who now follows the Orthodox Church, said the organization had “many positive elements,” like its ban on excessive drinking, smoking and other unhealthy habits. All the same, he said it deserved to be treated with suspicion. “Look at it from the view of the state,” he said. “Here is an organization that is run from America, that gets financing from abroad, and whose members don’t serve in the army and don’t vote. ” Estranged from his parents, who are still members and view his departure as sinful, he said Jehovah’s Witnesses broke up families and “in the logic of the state, it presents a threat. ” He added, “I am not saying this is real or not, but it needs to be checked by objective experts. ” Mr. Sivak, now preparing for yet another trial, said that he had always tried to follow the law and that he respected the state, but could not put its interests above the commands of his faith. “They say I am a terrorist,” he said, “but all I ever wanted to do was to get people to pay attention to the Bible. ”



JERUSALEM  —   Islamic State sympathizers and militants celebrated last night’s deadly terrorist massacre at a crowded concert in Manchester, England, with the jihadists vowing to continue the onslaught against the West. [The Islamic State claimed that a “soldier of the caliphate planted bombs in the middle of Crusaders gatherings,” apparently taking credit for the carnage.  Breitbart Jerusalem obtained access to correspondence posted in a closed chat group that utilizes the encrypted Telegram messaging service. The chat group serves as an internal Twitter of sorts for IS jihadists and sympathizers, and it has been used in the past to issue IS communications. A militant named Abu Ayman Alalmani (the German) wrote, “Thanks to Allah who allowed this achievement of the Mujahedeen. We are all believers in Allah that our brothers, the supporters and the Mujahedeen, are those who committed the attack among the infidels. We swear to Allah that the infidel countries in the West won’t have the luxury of security. This is a Godly promise and this is the promise of the Mujahedeen, the future will prove to you that you are the countries of heresy. You will see this and not only hear it. ” An account titled “Muslim Justice” wrote, “Allah is great, Allah is great, we will shake the infidel and criminal regimes. We will destroy the rule of those who abandon Islam [a reference to Arab leaders]. Allah is great, this is a call that will rise high on the horizon and we will yet defeat the cross and the countries of infidels. ” ISIS member Abu Abdullah Alsury (the Syrian) wrote, “Thanks to Allah who caused the faithful to rejoice, we ask and request of Allah that this blessed act will be part of the battle of our brothers, the lone wolves roaming across all parts of the infidel nations, as they seek this type of blessed attack. This is part of the work and this is part of the revenge. Those infidel states will pay a heavy price. ” Prior to the Islamic State claiming credit for the attack, another militant, Alqaqaa Alidlebi from Idlib, wrote, “We’re waiting for our brothers in the official media department to publish what should warm our hearts with an official declaration of responsibility, even if this isn’t an organized act. ” “We pray to Allah that the attacker is a faithful Muslim. You aren’t aware of the huge happiness here in the ranks of the Mujahedeen and their families in the district of Elkheir (the area of Dir Azzur on the border between Syria and Iraq). How happy we are that Allah guided the hand of the attacker to send the heads of the corrupt infidels who murder the Muslims in our countries flying. ” Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook. Ali Waked is the Arab affairs correspondent for Breitbart Jerusalem.


Orders for abortion pills by women in seven Latin American countries with Zika outbreaks increased after health officials in those countries warned that the virus might cause severe birth defects, according to a women’s organization supplying such pills. Orders from women in Brazil, Ecuador and Venezuela roughly doubled, while those from Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras went up by from 36 percent to 76 percent, researchers said in a study published Wednesday by The New England Journal of Medicine. The authors of the study included a leader of the group based in Amsterdam that is supplying the pills, Women on Web, a nonprofit staffed by doctors helping women from countries where abortion is illegal or restricted to terminate unwanted pregnancies. Even with the increase in demand for abortion pills, the number of orders received by Women on Web from Latin America and the Caribbean in that time period was small: slightly more than 2, 300 in the region, with about 1, 600 of those in countries where health authorities had warned about Zika’s potential to cause brain damage. In the countries where Zika warnings were issued, there are typically about 3. 5 million abortions per year, said Gilda Sedgh, the principal research scientist at the Guttmacher Institute, a reproductive health research organization which was not involved in the study. So, Dr. Sedgh said, “The increase in demand for abortion observed by the authors in countries affected by Zika could be spurious because Women on Web accounts for a small share of all abortions in that part of the world. ” The numbers could be “an early warning sign” of increased demand for abortion because of Zika, Dr. Sedgh said, adding that it is also possible that Women on Web “might have experienced an increase in demand as a result of increased visibility of their services when health advisories were issued. ” Access to abortion has been a contentious issue for years in many of the countries affected by Zika, but Zika has brought fresh attention to the debate. In Latin America and the Caribbean, according to a recent study, there are about 6. 5 million abortions each year. Most of them are illegal, and an estimated 750, 000 women a year are treated for complications from unsafe abortions in the region, Dr. Sedgh said. Women’s rights groups have long pressed for abortion restrictions to be eased. The study looked at orders for pills between Nov. 17, 2015, when the Pan American Health Organization issued an alert saying Zika virus might be linked to a surge in infants born with tiny heads and damaged brains in Brazil, and March 2 of this year. It compared actual orders to the number that would have been expected based on orders during the previous five years. Women on Web has a history of defying legal restrictions in such countries, which sometimes block access to its website or seize the packages it sends. The nonprofit also asks women unable to pay for their prescription to write an email explaining why they needed the abortion pill and could not afford it. “Some of the emails that came in were heartbreaking,” said Dr. Abigail R. A. Aiken, a reproductive health researcher at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas, Austin, and the lead author of the study. “The fear and desperation was really hard to read. ” A woman from Venezuela wrote, “I contracted Zika 4 days ago,” adding: “I love children. But I don’t believe it is a wise decision to keep a baby who will suffer. I need an abortion. I don’t know who to turn to. Please help me ASAP!” An email from a woman in Colombia said, “Here Zika is a major problem and the health authorities do not help with it. ” She added: “I have no resources at this time and want to ask for your help because fear overwhelms me. What if the baby is born sick? !” Even more than it has increased attention on restrictive abortion laws, the Zika crisis has highlighted the issues of access to contraception and ways that women are   about birth control or discouraged from using it in some of the countries. In the face of Zika, some countries have been working to increase the availability and use of contraception. Women on Web is an offshoot of Women on Waves, which was founded in 1999 by Dr. Rebecca Gomperts. Women on Waves originally sailed a Dutch boat to countries that outlawed abortion, took women on board and performed abortions outside a nation’s territorial waters. As internet access in poor countries increased, Dr. Gomperts began supplying mifepristone and misoprostol pills, a combination approved by the World Health Organization for abortion in the first 10 weeks of a pregnancy. The Women on Web site is posted in five languages and tops Google search results for “I need an abortion. ”


Wednesday after   Donald Trump’s press conference at Trump Tower in New York City, NBC “Meet the Press” moderator Chuck Todd expressed his exasperation over the normalcy of what he called a “circus” surrounding Trump’s event.  “I was struck big picture wise which is of how normal a circus is now to us,” Todd said. “This was a circus. We’ve never seen a   a transition like we saw today where the press conference gets interrupted, you have a lawyer in here. The lawyer does half legal talk, half political spin. I’ve never seen that, using the lawyer to say he’s here to make America great again, and by the way I’m going to play constitutional lawyer. I don’t think this but clearly a constitutional lawyer told us we better not accept any of this money. So they made that exception. So I am struck at how normal crazy looked to us today. This was just a crazy scene, but this is the norm of Donald Trump. And in fact, this is where he’s most comfortable. And I will say this. just as a political show. if you’re Donald Trump, you want these press conferences because it made the press look disjointed, unorganized, all this stuff. And his people, you know, he just, it was a performance for his supporters and his people. ” Later in the segment, Todd decried what he saw as elements within the intelligence community being at odds with one another, then called a story put out by BuzzFeed a night earlier suggesting Trump had ties to Russia to be a “political favor. ” “Look, let’s be honest here,” Todd said. “Politically BuzzFeed did Donald Trump a political favor today by doing what they did by going ahead and making it all public because it allowed them to deny a specific without having to deal with the bigger picture. ” Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor


The scandal engulfing Wells Fargo toppled its chairman and chief executive on Wednesday, as John G. Stumpf announced his departure from the company, effective immediately. The move was a swift and stunning fall for an executive whose bank made it through the 2008 financial crisis relatively unscathed, only to be undone by a   sales scandal that pervaded its community banking division and percolated under the surface for years. It was an extraordinary moment even in the banking industry, which has been bedeviled by criticism and regular scandals since the financial crisis. Despite the industry’s many troubles, relatively few banking chiefs have stepped down under outside pressure. But Wells Fargo’s transgressions were unusually blatant and straightforward, which contributed to the   public outcry. This time, there were no exotic financial instruments, complicated trades or complex mortgage trickery. The bank’s misdeeds were fundamentally simple: Under intense pressure to meet aggressive sales goals, employees created sham accounts using the names  —   and sometimes, the actual money  —   of the bank’s real customers. And in some cases the customers did not discover the activity until they started accumulating fees. The reaction to the fake accounts at Wells Fargo, and to Mr. Stumpf’s response to what has been uncovered as a widespread problem, has been withering and unrelenting. Wells Fargo has been under fire from irate customers, regulators, lawmakers and former employees since last month, when it disclosed that it would pay $185 million in fines and penalties over the unauthorized creation of as many as two million bank and credit card accounts over a period of at least five years by branch employees who were said to be under intense pressure to hit ambitious product sales goals. The sales practices may reach back far longer. Former bank employees told The New York Times of concerns they raised internally as far back as 11 years ago. Mr. Stumpf, 63, who was twice called in front of Congress to testify about the scandal in recent weeks, faced vocal demands to resign from an outraged public, but the timing of his departure was unexpected given that the Wells Fargo board had not completed its internal investigation into the phony accounts and that the bank reports   earnings on Friday. He potentially walks away with millions of dollars, including a $20 million pension, as of Wednesday, another $4. 3 million in deferred compensation, plus stock worth $109 million, according to data from Equilar. As the scandal erupted, Mr. Stumpf, who grew up on a dairy and poultry farm in Minnesota and had long emphasized his folksy roots, was unable to quell the uproar. Rather, he often seemed to inflame it. During his testimony in front of Congress, Mr. Stumpf said he took responsibility for the problems, but would not admit that there anything wrong with the bank’s broader culture. When pressed repeatedly by members of the Senate Banking Committee about why he had not given back any of his lavish compensation, Mr. Stumpf insisted that the decision was not up to him, but to the bank’s board. He was reminded that he was the board’s chairman. One senator on the banking committee noted that criticism of the Wells Fargo scandal was one of the few things that Democrats and Republicans had agreed on in a long time. Mr. Stumpf’s spent 34 years at a bank that had once been regarded as a darling on Wall Street because of its ability to churn out profits even as other banks struggled. Mr. Stumpf was named chief executive in 2007 and was one of the country’s   bankers, earning about $19 million last year. He was named the 2013 Banker of the Year by the trade publication American Banker. Wells Fargo was once the most valuable bank as measured by the price of its stock, which attracted the billionaire Warren E. Buffett as its largest shareholder. Mr. Buffett’s company, Berkshire Hathaway, has a stake of about 10 percent. Mr. Buffett did not respond to a request for comment on Wednesday. Wells Fargo has since ceded the most valuable bank distinction to JPMorgan Chase. The board received a letter from Mr. Stumpf early on Wednesday indicating that he intended to retire, according to a person briefed on the matter. This person said the board was still in the early stages of conducting its investigation into the fake accounts and Mr. Stumpf’s handling of the scandal and had not drawn any conclusions from its inquiry. The board was not scheduled to meet on Wednesday when it received Mr. Stumpf’s letter, which this person described as brief and lacking any indication as to why the longtime C. E. O. decided to leave now. Top bank executives were expecting that Mr. Stumpf would address analysts and investors  —   as he has always done  —   when Wells Fargo reports its   results on Friday. Wells Fargo said Mr. Stumpf would be replaced by Timothy J. Sloan, its president and chief operating officer. Just two days earlier, the San Francisco bank shuffled its top management to give more responsibility to Mr. Sloan. “I am grateful for the opportunity to have led Wells Fargo,” Mr. Stumpf said in a written statement. “While I have been deeply committed and focused on managing the company through this period, I have decided it is best for the company that I step aside. ” Mr. Sloan was informed early Wednesday that he was the bank’s new C. E. O. though he had known for several days that Mr. Stumpf was preparing to step down. In an interview, Mr. Sloan said Mr. Stumpf had told him of his decision to retire after concluding that he would most likely continue to be the focus of much of the criticism being leveled at the bank. “It was an incredibly selfless decision,” Mr. Sloan said. Federal regulators and the Los Angeles city attorney began looking into the issue in 2013. The deal Wells Fargo announced last month to settle cases brought by their offices was intended to resolve the matter, but it instead opened the floodgates, provoking a furious outpouring of questions, criticism and new information about what former employees say was a   culture of toxic sales pressure. The Department of Justice and Labor Department opened their own inquiries. Mr. Sloan said the bank had already named a new head of community banking, ended the retail banking sales goals that employees blamed for putting them under undue pressure and extended its review of its sales practices back to 2009. Originally, the bank’s review covered its activities only between 2011 and 2015. Mr. Sloan will not hold the dual of roles of chief executive and chairman as Mr. Stump had. Mr. Stumpf agreed last month to surrender stock grants valued at $41 million  —   another highly unusual move on Wall Street, where clawback provisions have been widely adopted but are almost never deployed. Mr. Stumpf said he would give up his $2. 8 million annual salary for the duration of the board’s investigation. Because his departure is a resignation, Mr. Stumpf will leave without any severance, according to Oscar Suris, a company spokesman. Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who blasted Mr. Stumpf when he appeared before the Senate last month, fired off a scathing statement on Wednesday. “As I said at the hearing last month, Mr. Stumpf should resign, return every nickel he made while this scam was going on, and face an investigation by the Justice Department and S. E. C. ,” she said. “So far, he’s one for three. ”


A week before Michael T. Flynn resigned as national security adviser, a sealed proposal was   to his office, outlining a way for President Trump to lift sanctions against Russia. Mr. Flynn is gone, having been caught lying about his own discussion of sanctions with the Russian ambassador. But the proposal, a peace plan for Ukraine and Russia, remains, along with those pushing it: Michael D. Cohen, the president’s personal lawyer, who delivered the document Felix H. Sater, a business associate who helped Mr. Trump scout deals in Russia and a Ukrainian lawmaker trying to rise in a political opposition movement shaped in part by Mr. Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort. At a time when Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia, and the people connected to him, are under heightened scrutiny  —   with investigations by American intelligence agencies, the F. B. I. and Congress  —   some of his associates remain willing and eager to wade into   efforts behind the scenes. Mr. Trump has confounded Democrats and Republicans alike with his repeated praise for the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, and his desire to forge an   alliance. While there is nothing illegal about such unofficial efforts, a proposal that seems to tip toward Russian interests may set off alarms. The amateur diplomats say their goal is simply to help settle a grueling,   conflict that has cost 10, 000 lives. “Who doesn’t want to help bring about peace?” Mr. Cohen asked. But the proposal contains more than just a peace plan. Andrii V. Artemenko, the Ukrainian lawmaker, who sees himself as a   leader of a future Ukraine, claims to have evidence  —   “names of companies, wire transfers”  —   showing corruption by the Ukrainian president, Petro O. Poroshenko, that could help oust him. And Mr. Artemenko said he had received encouragement for his plans from top aides to Mr. Putin. “A lot of people will call me a Russian agent, a U. S. agent, a C. I. A. agent,” Mr. Artemenko said. “But how can you find a good solution between our countries if we do not talk?” Mr. Cohen and Mr. Sater said they had not spoken to Mr. Trump about the proposal, and have no experience in foreign policy. Mr. Cohen is one of several Trump associates under scrutiny in an F. B. I. counterintelligence examination of links with Russia, according to law enforcement officials he has denied any illicit connections. The two others involved in the effort have somewhat questionable pasts: Mr. Sater, 50, a   pleaded guilty to a role in a stock manipulation scheme decades ago that involved the Mafia. Mr. Artemenko spent two and a half years in jail in Kiev in the early 2000s on embezzlement charges, later dropped, which he said had been politically motivated. While it is unclear if the White House will take the proposal seriously, the diplomatic freelancing has infuriated Ukrainian officials. Ukraine’s ambassador to the United States, Valeriy Chaly, said Mr. Artemenko “is not entitled to present any alternative peace plans on behalf of Ukraine to any foreign government, including the U. S. administration. ” At a security conference in Munich on Friday, Mr. Poroshenko warned the West against “appeasement” of Russia, and some American experts say offering Russia any alternative to a    international agreement on Ukraine would be a mistake. The Trump administration has sent mixed signals about the conflict in Ukraine. But given Mr. Trump’s praise for Mr. Putin, John Herbst, a former American ambassador to Ukraine, said he feared the new president might be too eager to mend relations with Russia at Ukraine’s expense  —   potentially with a plan like Mr. Artemenko’s. It was late January when the three men associated with the proposed plan converged on the Loews Regency, a luxury hotel on Park Avenue in Manhattan where business deals are made in a lobby furnished with leather couches, over martinis at the restaurant bar and in private conference rooms on upper floors. Mr. Cohen, 50, lives two blocks up the street, in Trump Park Avenue. A lawyer who joined the Trump Organization in 2007 as special counsel, he has worked on many deals, including a   tower in the republic of Georgia and a   mixed martial arts venture starring a Russian fighter. He is considered a loyal lieutenant whom Mr. Trump trusts to fix difficult problems. The F. B. I. is reviewing an unverified dossier, compiled by a former British intelligence agent and funded by Mr. Trump’s political opponents, that claims Mr. Cohen met with a Russian representative in Prague during the presidential campaign to discuss Russia’s hacking of Democratic targets. But the Russian official named in the report told The New York Times that he had never met Mr. Cohen. Mr. Cohen insists that he has never visited Prague and that the dossier’s assertions are fabrications. (Mr. Manafort is also under investigation by the F. B. I. for his connections to Russia and Ukraine.) Mr. Cohen has a personal connection to Ukraine: He is married to a Ukrainian woman and once worked with relatives there to establish an ethanol business. Mr. Artemenko, tall and burly, arrived at the Manhattan hotel between visits to Washington. (His wife, he said, met the first lady, Melania Trump, years ago during their modeling careers, but he did not try to meet Mr. Trump.) He had attended the inauguration and visited Congress, posting on Facebook his admiration for Mr. Trump and talking up his peace plan in meetings with American lawmakers. He entered Parliament in 2014, the year that the former Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych fled to Moscow amid protests over his economic alignment with Russia and corruption. Mr. Manafort, who had been instrumental in getting Mr. Yanukovych elected, helped shape a political bloc that sprang up to oppose the new president, Mr. Poroshenko, a wealthy businessman who has taken a far tougher stance toward Russia and accused Mr. Putin of wanting to absorb Ukraine into a new Russian Empire. Mr. Artemenko, 48, emerged from the opposition that Mr. Manafort nurtured. (The two men have never met, Mr. Artemenko said.) Before entering politics, Mr. Artemenko had business ventures in the Middle East and real estate deals in the Miami area, and had worked as an agent representing top Ukrainian athletes. Some colleagues in Parliament describe him as corrupt, untrustworthy or simply insignificant, but he appears to have amassed considerable wealth. He has fashioned himself in the image of Mr. Trump, presenting himself as Ukraine’s answer to a rising class of nationalist leaders in the West. He even traveled to Cleveland last summer for the Republican National Convention, seizing on the chance to meet with members of Mr. Trump’s campaign. “It’s time for new leaders, new approaches to the governance of the country, new principles and new negotiators in international politics,” he wrote on Facebook on Jan. 27. “Our time has come!” Mr. Artemenko said he saw in Mr. Trump an opportunity to advocate a plan for peace in Ukraine  —   and help advance his own political career. Essentially, his plan would require the withdrawal of all Russian forces from eastern Ukraine. Ukrainian voters would decide in a referendum whether Crimea, the Ukrainian territory seized by Russia in 2014, would be leased to Russia for a term of 50 or 100 years. The Ukrainian ambassador, Mr. Chaly, rejected a lease of that kind. “It is a gross violation of the Constitution,” he said in written answers to questions from The Times. “Such ideas can be pitched or pushed through only by those openly or covertly representing Russian interests. ” The reaction suggested why Mr. Artemenko’s project also includes the dissemination of “kompromat,” or compromising material, purportedly showing that Mr. Poroshenko and his closest associates are corrupt. Only a new government, presumably one less hostile to Russia, might take up his plan. Mr. Sater, a longtime business associate of Mr. Trump’s with connections in Russia, was willing to help Mr. Artemenko’s proposal reach the White House. Mr. Trump has sought to distance himself from Mr. Sater in recent years. If Mr. Sater “were sitting in the room right now,” Mr. Trump said in a 2013 deposition, “I really wouldn’t know what he looked like. ” But Mr. Sater worked on real estate development deals with the Trump Organization on and off for at least a decade, even after his role in the stock manipulation scheme came to light. Mr. Sater, who was born in the Soviet Union and grew up in New York, served as an executive at a firm called Bayrock Group, two floors below the Trump Organization in Trump Tower, and was later a senior adviser to Mr. Trump. He said he had been working on a plan for a Trump Tower in Moscow with a Russian real estate developer as recently as the fall of 2015, one that he said had come to a halt because of Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign. (Mr. Cohen said the Trump Organization had received a letter of intent for a project in Moscow from a Russian real estate developer at that time but determined that the project was not feasible.) Mr. Artemenko said a mutual friend had put him in touch with Mr. Sater. Helping to advance the proposal, Mr. Sater said, made sense. “I want to stop a war, number one,” he said. “Number two, I absolutely believe that the U. S. and Russia need to be allies, not enemies. If I could achieve both in one stroke, it would be a home run. ” After speaking with Mr. Sater and Mr. Artemenko in person, Mr. Cohen said he would deliver the plan to the White House. Mr. Cohen said he did not know who in the Russian government had offered encouragement on it, as Mr. Artemenko claims, but he understood there was a promise of proof of corruption by the Ukrainian president. “Fraud is never good, right?” Mr. Cohen said. He said Mr. Sater had given him the written proposal in a sealed envelope. When Mr. Cohen met with Mr. Trump in the Oval Office in early February, he said, he left the proposal in Mr. Flynn’s office. Mr. Cohen said he was waiting for a response when Mr. Flynn was forced from his post. Now Mr. Cohen, Mr. Sater and Mr. Artemenko are hoping a new national security adviser will take up their cause. On Friday the president wrote on Twitter that he had four new candidates for the job.


Organizing for Action, the activist group that morphed from Barack Obama’s first presidential campaign, has partnered with the   Indivisible Project for “online trainings” on how to protest President Donald Trump’s agenda. [Last week, Breitbart News extensively reported that Indivisible leaders are openly associated with groups financed by billionaire George Soros.  Politico earlier this month profiled Indivisible in an article titled, “Inside the protest movement that has Republicans reeling. ”  The news agency not only left out the Soros links, but failed to note that the organizations cited in its article as helping to amplify Indivisible’s message are either financed directly by Soros or have close ties to groups funded by the billionaire, as Breitbart News documented. Organizing for Action (OFA) is a   community organizing project that sprung from Obama’s 2012 campaign organization, Organizing for America, becoming a nonprofit described by the Washington Post as “advocate[ing] for the president’s policies. ” In a recent Facebook post titled, “Take a deep breath. Then take action,” OFA called on constituents to lobby particularly hard between now and February 26, when lawmakers will be in their home districts. The post included a link to a guide released by Indivisible on how to organize against Trump. “Stay tuned for online trainings and invitations to calls with coalition partners like Indivisible Guide,” the OFA post states. Paul Sperry, writing at the New York Post, relates: The manual, published with OFA partner “Indivisible,” advises protesters to go into halls quietly so as not to raise alarms, and “grab seats at the front of the room but do not all sit together. ” Rather, spread out in pairs to make it seem like the whole room opposes the Republican host’s positions. “This will help reinforce the impression of broad consensus. ” It also urges them to ask “hostile” questions  —   while keeping “a firm hold on the mic”  —   and loudly boo the the GOP politician if he isn’t “giving you real answers. ” “Express your concern [to the event’s hosts] they are giving a platform to   authoritarianism, racism, and corruption,” it says.   …    “Even the safest [Republican] will be deeply alarmed by signs of organized opposition,” the document states, “because these actions create the impression that they’re not connected to their district and not listening to their constituents. ” Sperry reported OFA “plans to stage 400 rallies across 42 states this year to attack Trump and Republicans over ObamaCare’s repeal. ” Earlier this month, NBC News reported on OFA’s new actions and its partnership with Indivisible: OFA has hired 14 field organizers in states home to key senators as part of its campaign to defend Obama’s signature healthcare law. To run that campaign, the group hired Saumya Narechania  —   the former national field director at Enroll America, which worked to sign people up for Obamacare  —   and a deputy campaign manager.   …    OFA says more than 1, 800 people have applied to its Spring Community Engagement Fellowship, a   training program,   of whom have not previously been involved with OFA. And the group has teamed up with Indivisible, a buzzy newcomer to the progressive movement, to offer organizing training that began Thursday night with a video conference. A combined 25, 000 people have registered to participate in those trainings, OFA said. Indivisible’s DC branch was implicated in a scuffle last week that reportedly injured a    staffer for Rep. Dana Rohrabacher ( ) as well as reportedly knocking a    to the ground.  Protesters claimed they were only delivering Valentine’s Day cards. Indivisible is a part of a coalition of activist groups slated to hold a massive   Tax March in Washington and at least 60 other locations on April 15. Unreported by the news media is that most of the listed partners and support organizers of the march are openly financed by Soros or have close links to Soros financing, as Breitbart News documented last week. Meanwhile, earlier this month, Politico profiled Indivisible and reported that “conservatives” are “spreading unfounded rumors” that the group is “being driven by wealthy donors like George Soros. ” Politico, however, seemingly failed to do even the most minimal research on the Indivisible leaders cited in the news outlet’s own profile.  Some of those personalities are openly associated with groups financed by Soros. Politico further failed to note that the organizations cited in its article as helping to amplify Indivisible’s message are either financed directly by Soros or have close ties to groups funded by the billionaire. Citing Angel Padilla, a   of the group, Politico reported: Dubbed “Indivisible,” the group launched as a way for Padilla and a handful of fellow   aides to channel their   heartbreak into a manual for quashing President Donald Trump’s agenda. They drafted a   protest guide for activists, full of pointers on how to bird dog their members of Congress in the language of Capitol insiders. The manual has since been downloaded over one million times. Indivisible says on its website that over 4, 500 local groups across the nation have “signed up to resist the Trump agenda in nearly every congressional district in the country. ” The manual has been utilized to form the basis of a protest movement. The group’s website states: “What’s more, you all are putting the guide into action —  showing up en masse to congressional district offices and events, and flooding the congressional phone lines. You’re resisting —  and it’s working. ” Politico reported on “unfounded” rumors being spread about Soros’s involvement with Indivisible (emphasis added by this reporter): Its handful of senior leaders count about 100 contributors to their national organizing work but insist that all are working on a volunteer basis. They know conservatives are spreading unfounded rumors that their success is being driven by wealthy donors like George Soros, which they flatly deny. That paragraph was followed by the following quote from   Padilla (emphasis again added by this reporter): “It doesn’t matter who we take money from  —   we’re always going to get blamed as a Soros group, even if we don’t take money from Soros,” said Padilla, now an analyst with the National Immigration Law Center. “That’s one of the attacks and that’s fine. ” While “Indivisible” has yet to disclose its donors, Politico failed to inform readers that the National Immigration Law Center where the news outlet reported Padilla serves as an analyst is financed by Soros’s Open Society Foundations. The Center has received numerous Open Society grants earmarked for general support. Also unmentioned by Politico is that Padilla previously served as an immigration policy consultant at the radical National Council of La Raza. Soros is a major La Raza donor. Politico went on to detail how Indivisible has been aided by MoveOn. org and the ACLU.  The news website failed to tell readers that MoveOn. org and the ACLU are both financed by Soros, a relevant tidbit given Politico’s claim about “unfounded rumors” that Indivisibles’ success was being driven by Soros .  The news website reported: In addition, MoveOn. org and the Working Families Party joined with Indivisible for its first nationwide call on Jan. 22. Nearly 60, 000 people phoned in that day, according to Levin and MoveOn organizing director Victoria Kaplan. Indivisible estimates that its second national call, on the impact of Trump’s immigration order with assistance from the ACLU and Padilla’s group, drew 35, 000 people. Politico also missed that, according to its Twitter account, another organizer of the conference call with MoveOn. org was the International Refugee Assistance Project, a project of the Urban Justice Center, another recipient of an Open Society grant. Taryn Higashi, executive director of the Center’s International Refugee Assistance Project, currently serves on the Advisory Board of the International Migration Initiative of Soros’s Open Society Foundations. Politico further reported on Indivisible’s ties to the organizers of last month’s   Women’s March while failing to mention that Soros reportedly has ties to more than 50 “partners” of that march. Also, this journalist first reported on the march leaders’ own close associations with Soros. Regarding Indivisible and the Women’s March, Politico reported: Indivisible is also embracing collaboration with other major   protest outlets. Leaders of the group were in communication with Women’s March organizers before their main event on Jan. 21, and that partnership will become official when the March unveils the third in its series of 10 direct actions that attendees have been asked to pursue in their communities. Another Indivisible leader mentioned in the Politico article is Jeremy Haile. Not reported by Politico is that is Haile served as federal advocacy counsel for the Sentencing Project.  The Sentencing Project is reportedly financed by Soros’s Open Society Foundations, which has also hosted the Project to promote its cause. Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio. ” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.  


In these trying times, Jackie Mason is the Voice of Reason. [In this week’s exclusive clip for Breitbart News, Jackie discusses the looming threat of North Korea, and explains how President Donald Trump could win the support of the Hollywood left if the U. S. needs to strike first.  “If he decides to bomb them, the whole country will be behind him, because everybody will realize he had no choice and that was the only thing to do,” Jackie says. “Except the Hollywood left. They’ll get nauseous. ” “[Trump] could win the left over, they’ll fall in love with him in a minute. If he bombed them for a better reason,” Jackie explains. “Like if they have no transgender toilets. ” Jackie also says it’s no surprise that Hollywood celebrities didn’t support Trump’s strike on a Syrian airfield this month. “They were infuriated,” he says. “Because it might only save lives. That doesn’t mean anything to them. If it only saved the environment, or climate change! They’d be the happiest people in the world. ” Still, Jackie says he’s got nothing against Hollywood celebs. They’ve got a tough life in this country. Watch Jackie’s latest clip above.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum


Ever get the feeling your life circles the roundabout rather than heads in a straight line toward the intended destination? [Hillary Clinton remains the big woman on campus in leafy, liberal Wellesley, Massachusetts. Everywhere else votes her most likely to don her inauguration dress for the remainder of her days the way Miss Havisham forever wore that wedding dress.  Speaking of Great Expectations, Hillary Rodham overflowed with them 48 years ago when she first addressed a Wellesley graduating class. The president of the college informed those gathered in 1969 that the students needed “no debate so far as I could ascertain as to who their spokesman was to be” (kind of the like the Democratic primaries in 2016 minus the   terms unknown then even at a Seven Sisters school). “I am very glad that Miss Adams made it clear that what I am speaking for today is all of us —  the 400 of us,” Miss Rodham told her classmates. After appointing herself Edger Bergen to the Charlie McCarthys and Mortimer Snerds in attendance, the    bespectacled in granny glasses (awarding her matronly wisdom —  or at least John Lennon wisdom) took issue with the previous speaker. Despite becoming the first   to win election to a seat in the U. S. Senate since Reconstruction, Edward Brooke came in for criticism for calling for “empathy” for the goals of protestors as he criticized tactics. Though Clinton in her senior thesis on Saul Alinsky lamented “Black Power demagogues” and “elitist arrogance and repressive intolerance” within the New Left, similar words coming out of a Republican necessitated a brief rebuttal. “Trust,” Rodham ironically observed in 1969, “this is one word that when I asked the class at our rehearsal what it was they wanted me to say for them, everyone came up to me and said ‘Talk about trust, talk about the lack of trust both for us and the way we feel about others. Talk about the trust bust.’ What can you say about it? What can you say about a feeling that permeates a generation and that perhaps is not even understood by those who are distrusted?” The “trust bust” certainly busted Clinton’s 2016 plans. She certainly did not even understand that people distrusted her. After Whitewater, Travelgate, the vast   conspiracy, Benghazi, and the missing emails, Clinton found herself the distrusted voice on Friday. There was a load of compromising on the road to the broadening of her political horizons. And distrust from the American people —  Trump edged her 48 percent to 38 percent on the question immediately prior to November’s election —  stood as a major reason for the closing of those horizons. Clinton described her vanquisher and his supporters as embracing a “lie,” a “con,” “alternative facts,” and “a   assault on truth and reason. ” She failed to explain why the American people chose his lies over her truth. “As the history majors among you here today know all too well, when people in power invent their own facts and attack those who question them, it can mark the beginning of the end of a free society,” she offered. “That is not hyperbole. ” Like so many people to emerge from the 1960s, Hillary Clinton embarked upon a long, strange trip. From high school Goldwater Girl and Wellesley College Republican president to Democratic politician, Clinton drank in the times and the place that gave her a degree. More significantly, she went from idealist to cynic, as a comparison of her two Wellesley commencement addresses show. Way back when, she lamented that “for too long our leaders have viewed politics as the art of the possible, and the challenge now is to practice politics as the art of making what appears to be impossible possible. ” Now, as the big woman on campus but the odd woman out of the White House, she wonders how her current station is even possible. “Why aren’t I 50 points ahead?” she asked in September. In May she asks why she isn’t president. The woman famously dubbed a “congenital liar” by Bill Safire concludes that lies did her in —  theirs, mind you, not hers. Getting stood up on Election Day, like finding yourself the jilted bride on your wedding day, inspires dangerous delusions.


WASHINGTON  —   Decades before he began writing legal opinions, Judge Neil M. Gorsuch, President Trump’s nominee for the Supreme Court, was a student columnist at Columbia University. And he had no shortage of opinions. His topics ranged broadly, from life on campus to the   affair. His conservatism was a constant. And he had a lively writing style that persists to this day. He and his collaborators seemed to sense that their writings would survive the years. “We ought not forget,” they wrote in an unsigned 1987 editorial for The Federalist Paper, which Judge Gorsuch helped start, “there is something vital and useful in the curious, if imperfect youth  —   something that shall not be stifled. ” Here is a selection of that youthful curiosity. While mounting an ultimately unsuccessful bid for a seat on the university Senate as a freshman in 1986, Judge Gorsuch was asked by The Columbia Daily Spectator for his views on   issues, including the question of whether the Marines should be allowed to recruit on campus. The Spectator commissioned a series of columns on the lessons that should be learned from the   affair. Judge Gorsuch, whose mother had served in the Reagan administration, saw a need for a more decisive American foreign policy. In a February 1987 column, he took the university to task for what he called its failure to promote diversity (“that cherished buzzword”) of thought. In March 1987, Judge Gorsuch argued against making Columbia’s fraternity system coed as the university more fully integrated women. Writing with his friend Michael Behringer in The Federalist Paper, Judge Gorsuch, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, once more cited freedom of association. In 1988, Columbia was embroiled in debates about its fraternities, new university rules governing protests, and a student council election. Judge Gorsuch, never a fan of student protesters, derided “progressives” in a Spectator   column as being anything but progressive as they claimed “a monopoly on righteousness. ”


If you live in a household like mine  —   one with a nonverbal child  —   you’re anticipating one television show above all others this fall: “Speechless,” which begins Sept. 21 on ABC. A   series on a major network about “us”? It’s occasion for excitement, and for reflection. What, exactly, do we who live in the “Speechless” universe hope this series will accomplish? “Speechless” is a classic domestic comedy  —   yes, a comedy  —   centered on a    named JJ DiMeo who has cerebral palsy, can’t speak and uses an   device to express himself. He’s the eldest of three children, and he’s played by Micah Fowler, who himself has cerebral palsy, a casting decision that alone makes this series stand out. Minnie Driver portrays his mother, Maya, who like a lot of parents of children with disabilities sometimes turns into a      warrior for her son. JJ has two siblings (Mason Cook and Kyla Kenedy) whose own needs tend to get overlooked, a common thing in such households. John Ross Bowie plays the father, Jimmy, who struggles to keep Maya from sailing off the edge. When ABC picked up this show last spring, word spread quickly through the chat rooms and Facebook pages where nonverbal people and their parents hang out. The YouTube trailer has had about 1. 5 million views. I watched the pilot episode over the summer at Camp Communicate in Maine, which is for children who use   devices. Staff members and campers watching with me agreed: Whoever’s behind this show “gets it. ” There’s a reason for that: The show’s creator, Scott Silveri, grew up in a home much like the one in “Speechless,” with a nonverbal brother with cerebral palsy and other health issues. “It’s a story that I’ve been wanting to tell as long as I’ve been writing,” said Mr. Silveri, who has written and been a producer for “Friends” and other shows. “Not so much focused on doing a story about disability I was really interested in doing a family show and exploring how one family member with a disability affects everybody else and turns them into the specific kind of weirdos that they become. ” It is largely unexplored territory. For decades, enduring TV characters with a disability were rare. Name one from the medium’s first 50 years. “Ironside,” says practically everyone. Name five more? Not so easy. When such characters did turn up, they were frequently used as objects of pity or as catalysts that allowed   characters to learn an obvious lesson or feel better about themselves. Making matters worse was that often,   actors would tackle these roles with embarrassing gusto. People who saw Rosie O’Donnell playing a mentally challenged woman in the 2005 TV movie “Riding the Bus With My Sister” still haven’t stopped cringing. Things have improved in recent years. Characters with disabilities are still underrepresented on TV (the Census Bureau says one in five Americans have a disability, with half of those describing the condition as severe) but credible ones have been built into “The Wire,” “Switched at Birth,” “Legit,” “Breaking Bad” and more. Yet here is a blunt truth: Some disabilities are more telegenic than others. Who doesn’t love a high school kid singing in perfect harmony and   to “Proud Mary”? Sure, Artie of “Glee” was a delight. Now take away his singing ability and his wheelchair dexterity and make him able to communicate only by laboriously aiming a   laser pointer at a communication board. That’s JJ. That is a difficult character to make appealing, and putting him in network prime time in a central role is as bold, in its way, as television’s first single mother or black lead or transgender story line was. A   ago, ABC took a similar risk with “Life Goes On,” about a family with a Down syndrome child, a role played by Chris Burke, who has Down syndrome. That show, though, was a drama, which is what “outsiders” might expect: Disability equals struggle equals nothing but pain and misery. We “insiders” hate that. Yes, having a serious disability or caring for someone who does is hard, but hardship doesn’t define that life. Just the other day, I laughed a couple of times, and so did my daughter, who has Rett syndrome. Mr. Silveri said the No. 1 reaction he has had from “inside” families when they hear about the show has been, “Please tell me it’s a comedy. ” The casting of an actor with a disability has caused its own buzz, but Mr. Fowler won’t merely be playing himself. He has a milder form of cerebral palsy than his character (he can speak, for instance) and had to study up on how JJ would move and use his device. Could an actor without a disability have done the same as credibly? For Mr. Fowler, there’s no question. “Living every day with the challenges of a disability allows me to bring a rawness to the character and bring him to life with my unique perspectives,” he said in an email interview. If actors with special needs will be pulling for the show, so will a lot of parents of children with disabilities. Ms. Driver is keenly aware of carrying those hopes. “It gives me goose bumps thinking that,” she said. “To actually represent a body of people whose story hasn’t been told  —   that’s very gratifying. ” Though I’ve been writing as “us,” one thing you learn quickly when you have a child with a disability is that there is no “disability community” the opinions, aspirations and beliefs within that world are as wildly divergent as in the population at large. So I won’t presume to say what “we” want “Speechless” to accomplish only what I’d like. I hope it gives another, especially hard, kick to the door that has made characters and actors with disabilities so scarce on TV. And I hope it helps break down the sense of isolation that envelops families like the DiMeos. Many people still either stare or look away when they see someone like JJ. I don’t expect that those reactions will ever disappear. Maybe “Speechless” will make them a little less common.

The prepared written testimony that former FBI Director James Comey is set to deliver on Thursday morning vindicates President Donald Trump’s claim that he was told three times that he was not under investigation. [At the same time, the Comey testimony refutes reports by CNN and other outlets that Comey would dispute that claim.  When Trump fired Comey, he wrote: “While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the Bureau. ” As Zero Hedge noted Wednesday, CNN reported on Tuesday that Comey was “expected to refute Trump. ” Citing an anonymous source, CNN reported that “Comey is expected to explain to senators that those were much more nuanced conversations from which Trump concluded that he was not under investigation. ” Zero Hedge adds that CNN’s chief political analyst Gloria Borger, said: “Comey is going to dispute the president on this point if he’s asked about it by senators, and we have to assume that he will be. He will say he never assured Donald Trump that he was not under investigation, that that would have been improper for him to do so. ” However, Comey acknowledges in his prepared testimony that he did, in fact, tell Trump three times that he was not under investigation: once in a meeting at Trump Tower on January 6 a second time during a dinner on January 27 (which CNN says was “more nuanced”) and a third time during a telephone conversation on March 30. On a fourth occasion, in a phone call on April 11, the president said that he was not under investigation, and was not corrected. CNN has now added a correction to the top of its story: CORRECTION AND UPDATE: This article was published before Comey released his prepared opening statement. The article and headline have been corrected to reflect that Comey does not directly dispute that Trump was told multiple times he was not under investigation in his prepared testimony released after this story was published. Corey’s written testimony contradicts Trump’s account of events in one respect  —   namely, that Trump asked Comey for his “loyalty. ” However, Comey’s prepared remarks add a new revelation, which is that Comey agreed to provide “honest loyalty. ” He speculates that it is possible that he had a different understanding of that phrase than the president did. Joel B. Pollak is Senior    at Breitbart News. He was named one of the “most influential” people in news media in 2016. He is the   of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.


BERLIN  —   Germany’s highest court rejected on Tuesday an attempt to ban the National Democratic Party, the country’s oldest   political organization, finding that it did not pose a danger to democracy even though its principles violate the Constitution. The ruling by the Federal Constitutional Court came after years of deliberation and at a time of   in the country, where another   party, Alternative for Germany, is poised to win representation in Parliament in national elections this year. Although the National Democratic Party “pursues aims contrary to the Constitution,” there was a lack of “concrete supporting evidence” that the   party would be able to successfully achieve its goals and to pose a genuine threat, said Andreas Vosskuhle, the president of the court. “That a party has aims that run contrary to the Constitution is not sufficient grounds for banning a party,” he said. Germany’s 16 states submitted a petition in 2013 to ban the party, citing its racist,   agenda, but the law that allows a party to be banned is not based on “sympathies or worldview,” but on evidence of a specific threat to the Constitution, he said. Germany has strict laws on banning political parties, and only two have been outlawed since the defeat of the Nazis at the end of World War II  —   the   Socialist Reich Party, in 1952, and the German Communist Party, in 1956. A 2003 attempt to ban the National Democratic Party also failed, after the court found that paid informants in the party were partly responsible for evidence the government used. Over the past decade, the party has continued to lose popularity, with many of its members switching to Alternative for Germany. That party was founded in 2013 on an   agenda, but it has attracted followers after emerging as a prominent voice against Chancellor Angela Merkel’s decision to allow nearly one million refugees into the country since summer 2015. Although the influx has slowed, the issue remains a political point of contention. In September, voters ejected the National Democratic Party from the legislature in   the last state in which it had seats. Other than Udo Voigt, a member of the European Parliament, the party is now represented only at the local level. The eight judges of the court cited the party’s lack of playing a significant role in the political landscape as a reason for their decision not to ban it. “In more than five decades that it has existed, the National Democratic Party has not been able to achieve lasting representation in a state legislature,” Mr. Vosskuhle said, reading from the   ruling. “There are no indications that this will change in the future. ” At the height of its popularity, the party narrowly missed winning seats in the West German Parliament and was represented in seven of the country’s 11 state legislatures. Since German reunification in 1990, the party has been strongest in states of the former East Germany. The ruling means the   party remains eligible under German law for financial support from the government, drawn from taxpayers, one of the arguments for the attempt to ban it. Mr. Vosskuhle acknowledged this point, suggesting the idea of changing the Constitution to restrict funding from parties that are recognized as violating Germany’s democratic principles. On Tuesday, however, the party celebrated the ruling, with its leader, Frank Franz, posting on the party’s Facebook page, “  winner against an attempt to be outlawed. ” Thomas de Maizière, Germany’s interior minister, said that despite the ruling, he supported keeping the party under observation by the domestic intelligence services, a move that he credited for keeping the party from posing a substantial threat. But the ruling also earned criticism, especially from Jewish groups such as the World Jewish Congress, which expressed “disappointment” and “dismay” at the court’s ruling. “This sends the wrong signal, all the more so as the court made it very clear that the NPD indeed strives to overthrow the democratic order and shares many of the aims of Hitler’s Nazi Party,” said Ronald S. Lauder, the group’s president.


OMAHA  —   Ryan Lochte was off to a rough start at the United States Olympic trials even before he climbed on the blocks Sunday night for the second step in his defense of his Olympic gold medal in the   individual medley. The nonstop American Airlines flight that Lochte and his SwimMAC teammates had taken from North Carolina had encountered   problems. The plane flew below 10, 000 feet for several minutes before the pilots made an emergency landing in Kansas City, Mo. Instead of arriving here Thursday at 3 p. m. Lochte and his teammates pulled into their downtown hotel in two vans around midnight. It made for a long traveling day but provided perfect preparation for the inconveniences that the swimmers are likely to encounter if they qualify for the Games in Rio de Janeiro. Lochte, 31, a   Olympian and   medalist who had the world’s   time last year in the   individual medley, had not planned to defend his 400 I. M. title. He figured his winning effort at the London Games of 4 minutes 5. 18 seconds, the   time in history, was a fitting finale. Like shoveling snow, the 400 I. M. is a physically taxing activity best left to the youth. The proof was in the composition of the field Sunday at CenturyLink Center. The 94 men averaged 19. 5 years old. The youngest was    Carson Foster, who finished 43rd in the heats. The oldest, by two years, was Lochte, who qualified second in the first step of his title defense. He finished   of a second behind the preliminaries pacesetter, Chase Kalisz, whom Lochte afterward described as “a young buck. ” Kalisz, 22, has trained for the past several years, most recently at Arizona State, with Michael Phelps, the only swimmer to have finished faster than Lochte in the event. Lochte channeled Phelps in the first half of the final, taking the butterfly out fast and extending his lead on the backstroke leg. But Kalisz made his move on the third leg, bettering Lochte by more than four seconds in the breaststroke, and won going away in 4:09. 54. Jay Litherland, 20, from Georgia, passed a fading Lochte on the freestyle leg to secure the second and final Olympic berth with a personal best of 4:11. 02. Lochte was third in 4:12. 02. “We’re going to have our two best guys in that event in the Olympics representing the U. S. A. ,” said Lochte, who revealed that he had pulled his groin muscle on the breaststroke leg of his morning race. He said the injury had forced him to start hard in the final with the hope he could build an unbeatable lead by the time he got to the breaststroke leg, where the injury rendered his kick ineffectual. Lochte never considered skipping the final, he said. At his age, he was perhaps tempting fate in swimming the race at all. “I’m sure someone in their 30s could do it if they could get the motivation to do the training, but that’s tough,” said Kalisz’s coach, Bob Bowman. He added, “There’s only so long you can sustain that kind of work. ” Kalisz’s time was the second best in the world this year, behind Kosuke Hagino’s 4:08. 85. Hagino and a fellow Japanese swimmer, Daiya Seto, who has clocked a 4:10. 53, had pushed Lochte to enter the event. David Marsh, who coaches Lochte at SwimMAC in Charlotte, N. C. appealed to Lochte’s patriotism, telling him that if he was the best swimmer to have on the blocks for the United States, then he ought to swim. Generation Next had other ideas, and when its leader, Kalisz, climbed out of the water, Phelps was on the deck to hug him  —   twice. “He told me he was proud of me, and it was a very emotional moment,” Kalisz said. “Michael has been like an older brother to me that I never had, and he’s been the one guy that I have looked up to my entire life. ” Phelps, who turns 31 this week, had qualified to compete in the 400 I. M. at the Olympics three times, doing so in 2012 despite a training regimen that was less than diligent. He finished fourth at the London Games with a time more than five seconds slower than his winning effort of 2008. When Lochte mentioned to him this year that he was thinking about taking the 400 I. M. out of mothballs and adding it to his trials program, Phelps was blunt, he said. “I just said to him, ‘If you’re going to swim it, you better train because you can’t do it without it trust me,’” Phelps said Saturday. He added, “There’s no way to hide in that race. ” Phelps’s words proved prophetic. “I did everything I could in that race,” Lochte said. “It just wasn’t enough. Just got to forget about it. ” How will his injury affect his performance the rest of the week? “I don’t know,” Lochte said. “I’m just going to have to keep working on it, and hopefully it gets better. ”


A New York Democrat in Congress has filed a bill that would forbid immigration officers from wearing clothing that says “POLICE. ” Officials with U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) urge that it “may be a matter of   ” for them to do so. [In law enforcement, often a risky occupation, being able to immediately ID yourself as law enforcement may be a matter of    pic. twitter.   —   ICE (@ICEgov) April 7, 2017, 2,  ICE agents and officers may initially identify themselves as “police” in an encounter because it is the universally known term for law enforcement, they say. ICE agents  officers may initially ID themselves as “police” in an encounter because it is the universally known term for law enforcement pic. twitter.   —   ICE (@ICEgov) April 7, 2017,  Moreover, these agents and officers are sworn law enforcement personnel who enforce the laws in our country. ICE agents and officers are sworn law enforcement personnel who enforce our nation’s laws pic. twitter.   —   ICE (@ICEgov) April 7, 2017,  If she could have her way, U. S. Representative Nydia Velazquez ( ) would change that. She introduced a bill Thursday that would amend the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) to prohibit immigration officers and agents from wearing clothing with the word “police” on it. According to the Los Angeles Times, officials and open borders advocates in the California city are leading an effort to halt the practice of ICE officials quickly identifying themselves as police. The mayor of LA, Eric Garcetti, City Attorney Mike Feuer, and City Council President Herb Wesson penned a letter to the directors of ICE and the ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations Division “to urge in the strongest possible terms that ICE immediately cease this practice in our city. ” The officials sent a copy of the letter to U. S. Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly. The Times reported that the officials used the   justification that “the city’s immigrant communities are living in heightened fear of deportation and detention, and that such practices only discourage people from reporting crimes. ” These city officials do not contend that the practice is illegal. Rep. Velazquez calls the practice “completely unconscionable,” and the bill would apply to agents and officers with U. S. Customs and Border Protection: When ICE agents identify as “police” our communities are compromised  afraid. It is completely unconscionable: https:  .   —   Rep. Nydia Velazquez (@NydiaVelazquez) April 7, 2017,  The congresswoman told The Washington Post, “It could trick families into opening their doors to agents from ICE without a warrant. ” “There’s not going to be a lot of trust between the police and the communities,” she added. She also charges that “hate crimes and hate rhetoric have increased since Donald Trump made it to the White House” and counters  —   “You didn’t see that when Obama was in the White House. ” The Post reported that officials in the sanctuary city of Hartford, Connecticut, have also jumped on board to prohibit ICE officers and agents from identifying themselves as law enforcement. The police chief from Hartford issued a statement that said, “ICE agents should not identify as local police as it is misleading and can damage the important relationship with local communities. ” Harford Mayor Luke Bronin said, “our police and other public safety officers need to foster a relationship of trust with all our residents. ” He argues, “Our police officers have worked hard to build that trust, and for ICE agents to present themselves as local police will undermine the hard work our department has done. ” Mayor Bronin contends “We follow all state and federal laws, and we will partner with anyone to help get violent criminals off the streets. But federal agents should not be creating the impression that they are local police. ” News8 in Connecticut reports that Hartford sees itself as a “sanctuary city” and prohibits the local police or city agencies from collecting “immigration information. ” The Immigrant Defense Project and the Educational Alliance support Velazquez’ bill. The Times also reported that the Council on   Relations (CAIR) Service Employees International Union, Chinese Chamber of Commerce and the Central American Legal Assistance all champion the bill. Reps. Luis V. Gutierrez ( ) and Juan Vargas ( ) and other Democrats in Congress have also endorsed the bill, it reports. Breitbart News reported that officials detained Gutierrez in   when he refused to leave a meeting in the Chicago office of U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Gutierrez was leading a   with illegal aliens who were demanding information on specific deportation cases. Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX and Facebook.


Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton collided in an almost unremittingly hostile debate on Sunday night, a   spectacle of character attacks, tawdry allegations, and Mr. Trump’s startling accusation that Mrs. Clinton had “tremendous hate in her heart. ” In a remarkable political maneuver, Mr. Trump said Mrs. Clinton had smeared women who accused her husband, Bill Clinton, of sexually assaulting or harassing them, seeking to salvage his presidential candidacy after explosive reports about his past lewd comments about women. Tense at first, and then increasingly angry as he grew more comfortable on the attack, Mr. Trump noted that three of Mr. Clinton’s accusers were sitting in the audience. It was one of several moments when Mr. Trump aimed to energize his most conservative supporters and drive a wedge between them and the elected Republican officials who have been abandoning him. He even threatened that if it were up to him, Mrs. Clinton would “be in jail” for her use of a private email server as secretary of state. Both candidates were visibly uneasy throughout the debate, even refusing to shake hands at the beginning, as the town hall event unfolded on a small stage in a highly charged atmosphere. It was a deeply ugly moment in American politics, featuring the sort of personal invective rarely displayed by those who aspire to lead the nation. “Bill Clinton was abusive to women. Hillary Clinton attacked those same women  —   attacked them viciously,” Mr. Trump said, arguing that the accusations against Mr. Clinton were “far worse” than Mr. Trump’s own remarks in 2005 that he could grope women because he was “a star. ” Mr. Trump apologized for those comments but also repeatedly minimized them as “  talk,” and even tried to blame Mrs. Clinton for raising them in light of Mr. Clinton’s behavior. “She brings up words that I said 11 years ago  —   I think it’s disgraceful, and she should be ashamed of herself, to tell you the truth,” Mr. Trump said to scattered applause. Mrs. Clinton did not specifically rebut his charges about her husband, saying only, “So much of what he just said is not right. ” Instead, she broadened her indictment of Mr. Trump beyond the 2005 recording, assailing him for refusing to show contrition for his many inflammatory statements. “He never apologizes to anybody for anything,” Mrs. Clinton said. She unfurled a litany of his provocations, including his mocking a Gold Star family, accusing a Hispanic judge of being biased by virtue of his ethnicity, ridiculing a reporter who has a disability, and falsely claiming that President Obama was not born in America. “Yes, this is who Donald Trump is,” Mrs. Clinton said about his 2005 remarks. “The question for us, the question our country must answer, is that this is not who we are. ” After a tumultuous political weekend, the debate was watched extremely closely by Republican members of Congress, who are deciding whether to join dozens of elected officials who have broken away from the party’s nominee. Mr. Trump’s performance was   enough that no more Republican officials disavowed him in the immediate aftermath of the debate, and it prompted his running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, to assure him via Twitter he would remain on the ticket after Mr. Trump’s “big debate win. ” Mr. Trump’s attacks on the Clintons  —   including a promise that, as president, he would appoint a special prosecutor to investigate Mrs. Clinton’s email practices  —   were striking even in a presidential campaign that has often seemed like a race to the bottom because of Mr. Trump’s    assaults on his rivals. But no single answer by Mr. Trump seemed sufficient to put to rest the controversy over his 2005 remarks. As much as he apologized, he did not confess or reveal anything new about his treatment of women over the years. Instead, Mr. Trump alternated between sounding chastened or defensive and trying to energize his base, which remains deeply hostile to Mrs. Clinton. He did so by blasting Mrs. Clinton relentlessly over her State Department email and repeatedly interrupting her, barely concealing his contempt. He said again that Mrs. Clinton should be “ashamed” of herself for deleting some of the personal emails she sent as secretary of state. “Oh, you didn’t delete them?” he said sarcastically. Mrs. Clinton, plainly exasperated, shot back: “O. K. Donald. I know you’re into big diversion tonight  —   anything to avoid talking about your campaign and the way it’s exploding and the way Republicans are leaving you. ” At several points, Mr. Trump expressed his frustration with the moderators, Anderson Cooper of CNN and Martha Raddatz of ABC, demanding that Mr. Cooper focus more on one of Mrs. Clinton’s biggest vulnerabilities, her email. “Why aren’t you bringing up the emails?” he asked, before flatly accusing the moderators of conspiring against him. “It’s nice, one on three,” he said. Mr. Trump appeared more confident and aggressive than he had in the first debate, often dismissing Mrs. Clinton’s arguments out of hand and painting her as a politician “for 30 years” who had no record of accomplishment. “It’s just words, folks it’s just words,” he said about Mrs. Clinton’s policy proposals.   minutes later, he added, “It’s all talk and no action. ” Mr. Trump made little, if any, effort to appeal to moderate voters, instead hurling a series of insults at Mrs. Clinton. At one point, an audience member pressed him about whether he could be a “devoted president” for all Americans, and he said emphatically that he could be, without acknowledging that his comments over the past year had been extraordinarily divisive. Instead, he attacked Mrs. Clinton. “She calls our people ‘deplorable,’ a large group, and irredeemable,” Mr. Trump said, invoking a comment that Mrs. Clinton made last month disparaging what she said was half of Mr. Trump’s supporters. Mrs. Clinton’s response reflected a strategy of hers throughout the town   debate: trying to engage directly with the undecided voters in the audience who asked some of the questions, and showing her empathetic side. “Mr. Carter,” she said, naming the man who asked the question, “I have tried my entire life to do what I can to support children and families. You know, right out of law school, I went to work for the Children’s Defense Fund. And Donald talks a lot about, you know, the 30 years I’ve been in public service. I’m proud of that. ” Mr. Trump, however, was far less concerned with connecting with the voters seated in front of him than with attacking Mrs. Clinton in ways that would rally his voters behind him, and against the Republican officials who have been coming out against him. “She’s lied about a lot of things,” Mr. Trump said, contending that Mrs. Clinton’s shift to opposing the   Partnership trade deal was a falsehood. Moments later, he painted her in some of his most vicious language of the campaign. “She has tremendous hate in her heart,” Mr. Trump said. “She has tremendous hatred. ” In that moment and several others, Mr. Trump sought to bait Mrs. Clinton into lashing out, just as she did to great effect during their first debate. But she kept her composure, while Mr. Trump often seemed disgusted and running at a high boil. He even swiped at the Republicans now disavowing him, saying they should have done a better job holding Mrs. Clinton accountable over her emails. “I am so disappointed in congressmen, including Republicans, for allowing this to happen,” he said. He also used a question about Mr. Pence’s   rhetoric on Russia at last week’s   debate to breezily dismiss his running mate. “He and I haven’t spoken, and I disagree,” Mr. Trump said. Mrs. Clinton found herself on the defensive more than in the first debate, as Mr. Trump showed himself capable of some agility. When the moderators challenged her over revelations that in one of her paid speeches, she had asserted that politicians needed a “public and a private position” in making deals, she gave a meandering answer about how her remarks related to the plot of the Steven Spielberg film “Lincoln. ” Mr. Trump pounced. “She got caught in a total lie,” he said. “Now she’s blaming the lie on the late, great Abraham Lincoln. ” As some audience members laughed, he added, “Honest Abe never lied. ” Mrs. Clinton also had several strong moments, especially early in the debate, when she reminded voters of Mr. Trump’s recent attacks on a former Miss Universe for gaining weight. At one point, Mr. Trump dissembled when he was pressed by a moderator about why he had posted on Twitter before dawn to accuse the beauty queen, Alicia Machado, of recording a sex tape. “It wasn’t ‘check out a sex tape,’” he said at the debate. Mr. Trump had in fact tweeted, “Check out sex tape. ” The night unfolded in dramatic fashion. Shortly before the debate, Mr. Trump held a brief news conference in St. Louis with three women  —   Paula Jones, Juanita Broaddrick and Kathleen Willey  —   who allege that Mr. Clinton sexually assaulted or harassed them during his years in office in Arkansas or as president. They were joined by a fourth woman, Kathy Shelton, who was 12 when she was raped by a    in Arkansas Mrs. Clinton represented the man, who ultimately pleaded guilty to a reduced charge. Only in the final minutes was there a brief cessation in the warfare. One audience member asked the candidates to cite something positive about each other, and Mrs. Clinton reached for a common answer to such questions. “Look, I respect his children,” she said. “His children are incredibly able and devoted, and I think that says a lot about Donald. ” Mr. Trump thanked her for the “very nice compliment,” and then offered his own. “I will say this about Hillary: She doesn’t quit, she doesn’t give up,” he said. “She’s a fighter. ” A moment later, after the moderators concluded the debate, Mr. Trump reached out his hand, and Mrs. Clinton shook it.

At the steering wheel my father consults his large paper map, turning it this way and that, squinting at the small blue lines that squiggle through tiny Maine coastal towns. He’s heard that the author E. B. White’s house is somewhere around here, and he’s determined to find it. My mother, next to him in the passenger seat of our rusty gold station wagon with my baby sister on her lap, raises her eyebrows at my other two sisters and me,   in the second row. It’s the early 70s, and seatbelts haven’t caught on yet. We gaze back at her, knowing that once Dad gets an idea into his head, it’s almost impossible to stop him. We range in age from 1 to 10 (I’m the oldest) and all of us are literally and figuratively along for the ride. Besides, we’re excited at the prospect of meeting this author we already feel we know. We’ve been lulled to sleep every night by the soft cadence of my dad’s Southern accent as he reads us stories about a wise spider and a hapless pig, a resourceful mouse and a mute swan. Dad pulls off the road into the dusty parking lot of a country store with a lone gas pump, and gets out of the car. We hear him chatting with the attendant through the open window. “Sure is nice around here. ” The guy shrugs. My sisters and I glance at each other. Rural Mainers tend to be   and   averse. But as usual, Dad doesn’t seem to notice. “You lived here long?” “Ayuh. ” Amazingly, before long, and with only a little coaxing, the attendant is telling Dad about his grandkids and his lobster boat and pointing off into the distance, giving him the intel he’s come for. “Mr. White lives right over that hill there. Privet hedge in front. Can’t miss it. ” Back on the road, my sister Cynthia ventures, “Isn’t it rude to show up on someone’s doorstep without asking?” Dad grins and winks at us in the rearview mirror. “He’ll be flattered. ” We pull up to the farmhouse to find a courtly   man trimming the hedge with a set of clippers. “It’s him!” Dad whispers. He rolls down his window and leans out. “Hello, good sir!” The man seems a little nonplused. “I have a car full of young readers here who’d give anything to meet their favorite author. A word from you, and they’ll remember this moment for the rest of their lives. ” What choice does the poor man have? Within a few minutes, the famously reclusive E. B. White is demonstrating to a cluster of little girls in bathing suits that when you crush pine needles between your fingers and hold it to your nose, the smell is as strong as patchouli. And Dad is right  —   we never will forget it. My childhood was rife with moments like this. Dad was always going out on a limb, befriending people who didn’t necessarily seem to want new friends, trespassing on private property, pushing the boundaries of acceptable behavior in quest of adventure. His philosophy was that you don’t need money or plans, only a willingness to be present in the moment and to go where inspiration takes you. If you don’t, you’ll miss the entire point of being alive. Raised dirt poor in rural Georgia by a millworker mother and a father who often went to the bar rather than home after work, Dad learned early on that his quickest route up the social ladder was through charm and smarts. He got himself to college  —   the first in his family  —   on a football scholarship, then used seminary to springboard to a doctorate in a foreign land. As a young academic in the ‘60s, he grew to reject traditional values and had scant respect for the social codes of privilege. At parties, he could often be found talking to the bartender or a    Irish grandmother in the kitchen rather than the hosts. A Southerner through and through, even after moving to Maine, he was constitutionally incapable of walking down a street in New York without stopping to chat with doormen, bodega owners and homeless people. He never met a taxi driver whose story he didn’t want to know. Dad’s unorthodox and sometimes embarrassing friendliness got him, and us, into trouble now and then. Some people didn’t take kindly to probing questions. Others found his   openness suspect or unsophisticated. But his innate, bottomless curiosity about the world also taught his four daughters to be open to new experiences and comfortable with improvisation. Even now, in his late 70s, he lives each day with a kind of purposeful recklessness, asking provocative questions and seeking new experiences in the belief that he can break through to something better, more meaningful, more satisfying. Though my parents had little money, they took us on adventures all over the world. Driving through Scotland in a rainstorm, we pulled over to the side of the road and rode the wild ponies grazing by the fence. We coaxed a stray lamb over to our rented R. V. to feed it. One year my father switched houses, cars, teaching jobs, committees and pets with a professor in Melbourne, Australia, sight unseen. Another year our family of six flew to Crete without a plan at the airport Dad bought a map and started asking random strangers, with the help of a woefully inadequate Greek phrase book: “What should we do?” “Where should we stay?” This spontaneity meant that we missed flights, lost luggage, drove on perilous roads late at night, stayed in some   hovels, and sometimes went hungry. But it also yielded beautiful surprises: an undiscovered beach, a fisherman’s hut with a breathtaking view, a hillside breakfast of goats’ milk yogurt and fresh honey that I still remember 35 years later. It led to his daughters’ sense of the world not as a huge frightening place but as a wonderland ripe for discovery. The Maine farmhouse in Andrew Wyeth’s iconic painting “Christina’s World” was not yet a museum or even open to the public when my father got it into his head  —   soon after our ambush of E. B. White  —   to take a family field trip there. Following his usual routine, he pulled into the small village of Cushing and asked a local how to find the Olson house. When we arrived (no doubt trespassing) we picnicked in the field where the woman in the pink dress in the painting had lain. Looking up at that weathered gray house on the hill, and hearing the story of the woman with my name who spent her lifetime there, I was entranced. Years later, I drew on that experience to tell my own story of the painting in my new book. There’s no doubt that my dad’s endless curiosity has shaped who I am. I often find myself  —   to my own kids’ embarrassment  —   chatting with strangers in lines, accepting spontaneous invitations, and seeking     adventures. I think the most important thing I learned from my dad is that when you go out on a limb there’s a risk it will break, but you’ll get a whole new perspective on the world. And if you’re really lucky, it can feel like flying.


